README.md, before:

Tecken - All things Mozilla Symbol Server
=========================================

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-services/tecken.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-services/tecken)
<!-- [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mozilla-services/tecken/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/mozilla-services/tecken) -->
[![Updates](https://pyup.io/repos/github/mozilla-services/tecken/shield.svg)](https://pyup.io/repos/github/mozilla-services/tecken/)


Please use the documentation on: **https://tecken.readthedocs.io**

The **production server** is: https://symbols.mozilla.org


To Get Coding
-------------

You need to be able to run Docker.

Git clone and then run:

    make build
    make run

Now a development server should be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

To test the symbolication run:

    curl -d '{"stacks":[[[0,11723767],[1, 65802]]],"memoryMap":[["xul.pdb","44E4EC8C2F41492B9369D6B9A059577C2"],["wntdll.pdb","D74F79EB1F8D4A45ABCD2F476CCABACC2"]],"version":4}' http://localhost:8000


Datadog
-------

If you have access to a Mozilla Cloud Ops Datadog account, use this to
consume the metrics Tecken sends via `statsd`. One is for staying health, the other is for
keeping track how it does things.

[Tecken Operations](https://app.datadoghq.com/dash/286319/tecken)

[Tecken Performance](https://app.datadoghq.com/dash/339351/tecken-performance)


Whatsdeployed
-------------

Check out https://whatsdeployed.io/s-5HY


The Logo
--------

![logo](logo.png "The Logo")

The [logo](https://www.iconfinder.com/icons/118754/ampersand_icon) comes from
[P.J. Onori](http://www.somerandomdude.com/) and is licensed under
[Attribution-Non-Commercial 3.0 Netherlands](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/nl/deed.en_GB).

Commit message:

Links to New Relic applications directly

README.md, after:

Tecken - All things Mozilla Symbol Server
=========================================

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-services/tecken.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-services/tecken)
<!-- [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mozilla-services/tecken/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/mozilla-services/tecken) -->
[![Updates](https://pyup.io/repos/github/mozilla-services/tecken/shield.svg)](https://pyup.io/repos/github/mozilla-services/tecken/)


Please use the documentation on: **https://tecken.readthedocs.io**

The **production server** is: https://symbols.mozilla.org


To Get Coding
-------------

You need to be able to run Docker.

Git clone and then run:

    make build
    make run

Now a development server should be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

To test the symbolication run:

    curl -d '{"stacks":[[[0,11723767],[1, 65802]]],"memoryMap":[["xul.pdb","44E4EC8C2F41492B9369D6B9A059577C2"],["wntdll.pdb","D74F79EB1F8D4A45ABCD2F476CCABACC2"]],"version":4}' http://localhost:8000


Datadog
-------

If you have access to a Mozilla Cloud Ops Datadog account, use this to
consume the metrics Tecken sends via `statsd`. One is for staying health, the other is for
keeping track how it does things.

[Tecken Operations](https://app.datadoghq.com/dash/286319/tecken)

[Tecken Performance](https://app.datadoghq.com/dash/339351/tecken-performance)

New Relic
---------

This requires you have access to the 
[Mozilla_25 New Relic account](https://rpm.newrelic.com/accounts/1402187/applications).

[symbols-prod](https://rpm.newrelic.com/accounts/1402187/applications/62681492)

[symbols-stage](https://rpm.newrelic.com/accounts/1402187/applications/52227224)


Whatsdeployed
-------------

Check out https://whatsdeployed.io/s-5HY


The Logo
--------

![logo](logo.png "The Logo")

The [logo](https://www.iconfinder.com/icons/118754/ampersand_icon) comes from
[P.J. Onori](http://www.somerandomdude.com/) and is licensed under
[Attribution-Non-Commercial 3.0 Netherlands](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/nl/deed.en_GB).
