docs/configuration.rst, before:

=============
Configuration
=============

.. contents::

High-level things
=================

Tecken requires the following services in production:

1. PostgreSQL 9.5

2. Redis for general "performance" caching

3. Redis for LRU caching


General Configuration
=====================

The Django settings depends on there being an environment variable
called ``DJANGO_CONFIGURATION``. The ``Dockerfile`` automatically sets
this to ``Prod`` and the ``Dockerfile.dev`` overrides it to ``Dev``.

.. code-block:: shell

    # If production
    DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Prod

    # If stage
    DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Stage

    # If development server
    DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Dev

You need to set a random ``DJANGO_SECRET_KEY``. It should be predictably
random and a decent length:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=sSJ19WAj06QtvwunmZKh8yEzDdTxC2IPUXfea5FkrVGNoM4iOp

The ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` needs to be a list of valid domains that will be
used to from the outside to reach the service. If there is only one
single domain, it doesn't need to list any others. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_ALLOWED_HOSTS=symbols.mozilla.org

For Sentry the key is ``SENTRY_DSN`` which is sensitive but for the
front-end (which hasn't been built yet at the time of writing) we also
need the public key called ``SENTRY_PUBLIC_DSN``. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    SENTRY_DSN=https://bb4e266xxx:d1c1eyyy@sentry.prod.mozaws.net/001
    SENTRY_PUBLIC_DSN=https://bb4e266xxx@sentry.prod.mozaws.net/001

**Note!** There are two configurations, related to S3, that needs to be
configured (presumably different) on every deployment environment.
They are: ``DJANGO_SYMBOL_URLS`` and ``DJANGO_UPLOAD_DEFAULT_URL``.
See the section below about **AWS S3**.

AWS
===

Parts of Tecken does use ``boto3`` to talk directly to S3. For that
to work the following environment variables needs to be set:

.. code-block:: shell

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKI....H6A
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=....

This S3 access needs to be able to talk to the
``org.mozilla.crash-stats.symbols-public`` bucket which is in ``us-west-2``.

.. note:: This default is likely to change in mid-2017.

AWS S3
======

First of all, Tecken will never *create* S3 buckets for you. They are
expected to already exist. This is one exception to this; if you do
local development with Docker and ``localstack``, those configured buckets
are automatically created when the server starts. This is to ease local
development since ``localstack`` uses RAM to remember things like bucket
creation.

S3 buckets needs to be specified in two distinct places. One for where
Tecken can **read** symbols from and one for where Tecken can **write**.

Downloading
-----------

The *reading configuration* (used for downloading) is
called ``DJANGO_SYMBOL_URLS``. It's a
comma separated string. Each value, comma separated, is expected to be
a URL. The URL is deconstructed to extract out things like AWS region,
bucket name, prefix and whether the bucket should be reached by HTTP
(i.e. public) or by ``boto3`` (i.e. private).

What determines if a symbol URL is private or public is if it has
``access=public`` inside the query string.

The bucket name is always expected to the be first part of the URL path.
For example, in ``http://example.com/bucket-name-here/rest/is/prefix``
the bucket name is ``bucket-name-here`` and the prefix ``rest/is/prefix``.

Uploading
---------

The *write configuration* (used for uploading) is called potentially
by two different environment variables:

1. ``DJANGO_UPLOAD_DEFAULT_URL`` - a URL to indicate the
bucket where, by default, all uploads goes into unless it matches
an exception based on the uploader's email address.

2. ``DJANGO_UPLOAD_URL_EXCEPTIONS`` - a Python dictionary that maps an email
address or a email address glob pattern to a different URL.

As an example, imagine::

    DJANGO_UPLOAD_DEFAULT_URL=https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mozilla-symbols-public/myprefix
    DJANGO_UPLOAD_BUCKET_EXCEPTIONS={'*example.com': 'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mozilla-symbols-private/', 'foo@bar.com': 'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mozilla-symbols-special'}

In this case, if someone, who does the upload, has email ``me@example.com``
all files within the uploaded ``.zip`` gets uploaded to a bucket called
``mozilla-symbols-private``.


PostgreSQL
==========

The environment variable that needs to be set is: ``DATABASE_URL``
and it can look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    DATABASE_URL="postgres://username:password@hostname/databasename"

The connection needs to be able connect in SSL mode.
The database server is expected to have a very small footprint. So, as
long as it can scale up in the future it doesn't need to be big.

.. Note::

    Authors note; I don't actually know the best practice for
    setting the credentials or if that's automatically "implied"
    the VPC groups.

Redis cache
===========

The environment variable that needs to be set is: ``REDIS_URL``
and it can look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    REDIS_URL="redis://test.v8jvds.0001.usw1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/0"

The amount of space needed is minimal. No backups are necessary.

In future versions of Tecken this Redis will most likely be used
as a broker for message queues by Celery.

Expected version is **3.2** or higher.

Redis LRU
=========

Aka. Redis Store. This is the cache used for downloaded symbol files.
The environment value key is called ``REDIS_STORE_URL`` and it can
look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    REDIS_STORE_URL="redis://store.deef34.0001.usw1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/0"


This Redis will steadily grow large so it needs to not fail when it reaches
max memory capacity. For this to work, it needs to be configured to have a
``maxmemory-policy`` config set to the value ``allkeys-lru``.

In Docker (development) this is automatically set at start-up time but in
AWS ElastiCache `config is not a valid command`_. So this needs to
configured once in AWS by setting up an `ElastiCache Redis Parameter Group`_.
In particular the expected config is: ``maxmemory-policy=allkeys-lru``.

Expected version is **3.2** or higher.

.. _`config is not a valid command`: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/UserGuide/ClientConfig.RestrictedCommands.html
.. _`ElastiCache Redis Parameter Group`: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/UserGuide/ParameterGroups.Redis.html#ParameterGroups.Redis.3-2-4

StatsD
======

The three environment variables to control the statsd are as follows
(with their defaults):

1. ``DJANGO_STATSD_HOST`` (*localhost*)

2. ``DJANGO_STATSD_PORT`` (*8125*)

3. ``DJANGO_STATSD_NAMESPACE`` (*''* (empty string))


Auth0
=====

For authentication to work, you need to have an Auth0 account and its
credentials. You also need a domain so you can figure out certain
URLs. You need the client ID and the client secret. Put these into
the environment variables like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_OIDC_RP_CLIENT_ID=clientidhereclientidhere
    DJANGO_OIDC_RP_CLIENT_SECRET=clientsecrethereclientsecrethere

The default domain is ``auth.mozilla.auth0.com``. That has consequently
been used to set up the following defaults:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_OIDC_OP_AUTHORIZATION_ENDPOINT=https://auth.mozilla.auth0.com/authorize
    DJANGO_OIDC_OP_TOKEN_ENDPOINT=https://auth.mozilla.auth0.com/oauth/token
    DJANGO_OIDC_OP_USER_ENDPOINT=https://auth.mozilla.auth0.com/userinfo

If your domain is different, override these above three environment
variables with your domain.

Note! Tecken uses `Auth0`_ which follows the OpenID Connect protocol.
The configuration actually requires the above mentioned URLs and when
you use Auth0, the URLs are quite constant. But if you use another OpenID
Connect provider, use the domain (e.g. ``myoidc.example.com``) and go to
``https://myoidc.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`` and from
there it should publish the authorization, token and user endpoints.

.. _`Auth0`: https://auth0.com/

Commit message:

fixes bug 1369733 - gunicorn workers configurable

docs/configuration.rst, after:

=============
Configuration
=============

.. contents::

High-level things
=================

Tecken requires the following services in production:

1. PostgreSQL 9.5

2. Redis for general "performance" caching

3. Redis for LRU caching


General Configuration
=====================

The Django settings depends on there being an environment variable
called ``DJANGO_CONFIGURATION``. The ``Dockerfile`` automatically sets
this to ``Prod`` and the ``Dockerfile.dev`` overrides it to ``Dev``.

.. code-block:: shell

    # If production
    DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Prod

    # If stage
    DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Stage

    # If development server
    DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Dev

You need to set a random ``DJANGO_SECRET_KEY``. It should be predictably
random and a decent length:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=sSJ19WAj06QtvwunmZKh8yEzDdTxC2IPUXfea5FkrVGNoM4iOp

The ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` needs to be a list of valid domains that will be
used to from the outside to reach the service. If there is only one
single domain, it doesn't need to list any others. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_ALLOWED_HOSTS=symbols.mozilla.org

For Sentry the key is ``SENTRY_DSN`` which is sensitive but for the
front-end (which hasn't been built yet at the time of writing) we also
need the public key called ``SENTRY_PUBLIC_DSN``. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    SENTRY_DSN=https://bb4e266xxx:d1c1eyyy@sentry.prod.mozaws.net/001
    SENTRY_PUBLIC_DSN=https://bb4e266xxx@sentry.prod.mozaws.net/001

**Note!** There are two configurations, related to S3, that needs to be
configured (presumably different) on every deployment environment.
They are: ``DJANGO_SYMBOL_URLS`` and ``DJANGO_UPLOAD_DEFAULT_URL``.
See the section below about **AWS S3**.

AWS
===

Parts of Tecken does use ``boto3`` to talk directly to S3. For that
to work the following environment variables needs to be set:

.. code-block:: shell

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKI....H6A
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=....

This S3 access needs to be able to talk to the
``org.mozilla.crash-stats.symbols-public`` bucket which is in ``us-west-2``.

.. note:: This default is likely to change in mid-2017.

Gunicorn
========

At the moment, the only configuration for ``Gunicorn`` is that you can
set the number of workers. The default is 4 and it can be overwritten by
setting the environment variable ``GUNICORN_WORKERS``.

The number should ideally be a function of the web head's number of cores
according to this formula: ``(2 x $num_cores) + 1`` as `documented here`_.

.. _`documented here`: http://docs.gunicorn.org/en/stable/design.html#how-many-workers

AWS S3
======

First of all, Tecken will never *create* S3 buckets for you. They are
expected to already exist. This is one exception to this; if you do
local development with Docker and ``localstack``, those configured buckets
are automatically created when the server starts. This is to ease local
development since ``localstack`` uses RAM to remember things like bucket
creation.

S3 buckets needs to be specified in two distinct places. One for where
Tecken can **read** symbols from and one for where Tecken can **write**.

Downloading
-----------

The *reading configuration* (used for downloading) is
called ``DJANGO_SYMBOL_URLS``. It's a
comma separated string. Each value, comma separated, is expected to be
a URL. The URL is deconstructed to extract out things like AWS region,
bucket name, prefix and whether the bucket should be reached by HTTP
(i.e. public) or by ``boto3`` (i.e. private).

What determines if a symbol URL is private or public is if it has
``access=public`` inside the query string.

The bucket name is always expected to the be first part of the URL path.
For example, in ``http://example.com/bucket-name-here/rest/is/prefix``
the bucket name is ``bucket-name-here`` and the prefix ``rest/is/prefix``.

Uploading
---------

The *write configuration* (used for uploading) is called potentially
by two different environment variables:

1. ``DJANGO_UPLOAD_DEFAULT_URL`` - a URL to indicate the
bucket where, by default, all uploads goes into unless it matches
an exception based on the uploader's email address.

2. ``DJANGO_UPLOAD_URL_EXCEPTIONS`` - a Python dictionary that maps an email
address or a email address glob pattern to a different URL.

As an example, imagine::

    DJANGO_UPLOAD_DEFAULT_URL=https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mozilla-symbols-public/myprefix
    DJANGO_UPLOAD_BUCKET_EXCEPTIONS={'*example.com': 'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mozilla-symbols-private/', 'foo@bar.com': 'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mozilla-symbols-special'}

In this case, if someone, who does the upload, has email ``me@example.com``
all files within the uploaded ``.zip`` gets uploaded to a bucket called
``mozilla-symbols-private``.


PostgreSQL
==========

The environment variable that needs to be set is: ``DATABASE_URL``
and it can look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    DATABASE_URL="postgres://username:password@hostname/databasename"

The connection needs to be able connect in SSL mode.
The database server is expected to have a very small footprint. So, as
long as it can scale up in the future it doesn't need to be big.

.. Note::

    Authors note; I don't actually know the best practice for
    setting the credentials or if that's automatically "implied"
    the VPC groups.

Redis cache
===========

The environment variable that needs to be set is: ``REDIS_URL``
and it can look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    REDIS_URL="redis://test.v8jvds.0001.usw1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/0"

The amount of space needed is minimal. No backups are necessary.

In future versions of Tecken this Redis will most likely be used
as a broker for message queues by Celery.

Expected version is **3.2** or higher.

Redis LRU
=========

Aka. Redis Store. This is the cache used for downloaded symbol files.
The environment value key is called ``REDIS_STORE_URL`` and it can
look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    REDIS_STORE_URL="redis://store.deef34.0001.usw1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/0"


This Redis will steadily grow large so it needs to not fail when it reaches
max memory capacity. For this to work, it needs to be configured to have a
``maxmemory-policy`` config set to the value ``allkeys-lru``.

In Docker (development) this is automatically set at start-up time but in
AWS ElastiCache `config is not a valid command`_. So this needs to
configured once in AWS by setting up an `ElastiCache Redis Parameter Group`_.
In particular the expected config is: ``maxmemory-policy=allkeys-lru``.

Expected version is **3.2** or higher.

.. _`config is not a valid command`: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/UserGuide/ClientConfig.RestrictedCommands.html
.. _`ElastiCache Redis Parameter Group`: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/UserGuide/ParameterGroups.Redis.html#ParameterGroups.Redis.3-2-4

StatsD
======

The three environment variables to control the statsd are as follows
(with their defaults):

1. ``DJANGO_STATSD_HOST`` (*localhost*)

2. ``DJANGO_STATSD_PORT`` (*8125*)

3. ``DJANGO_STATSD_NAMESPACE`` (*''* (empty string))


Auth0
=====

For authentication to work, you need to have an Auth0 account and its
credentials. You also need a domain so you can figure out certain
URLs. You need the client ID and the client secret. Put these into
the environment variables like this:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_OIDC_RP_CLIENT_ID=clientidhereclientidhere
    DJANGO_OIDC_RP_CLIENT_SECRET=clientsecrethereclientsecrethere

The default domain is ``auth.mozilla.auth0.com``. That has consequently
been used to set up the following defaults:

.. code-block:: shell

    DJANGO_OIDC_OP_AUTHORIZATION_ENDPOINT=https://auth.mozilla.auth0.com/authorize
    DJANGO_OIDC_OP_TOKEN_ENDPOINT=https://auth.mozilla.auth0.com/oauth/token
    DJANGO_OIDC_OP_USER_ENDPOINT=https://auth.mozilla.auth0.com/userinfo

If your domain is different, override these above three environment
variables with your domain.

Note! Tecken uses `Auth0`_ which follows the OpenID Connect protocol.
The configuration actually requires the above mentioned URLs and when
you use Auth0, the URLs are quite constant. But if you use another OpenID
Connect provider, use the domain (e.g. ``myoidc.example.com``) and go to
``https://myoidc.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`` and from
there it should publish the authorization, token and user endpoints.

.. _`Auth0`: https://auth0.com/
