docs/download.rst, before:

========
Download
========


History
=======

The original solution that Tecken replaces is `symbols.m.o`_ which was a
Heroku app that ran an Apache server that used proxy rewrites to
draw symbols from ``https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/org.mozilla.crash-stats.symbols-public/v1/``.

Its rewrite rules contained two legacy solutions:

1. `Uppercase the debug ID`_ in the filename.

2. Support having specific product names (e.g. ``firefox``) prefixing the
   name of the symbol file.


The old symbol download server was using ``symbols.mozilla.org`` and
was accessible only with ``http://``.

.. _`symbols.m.o`: https://github.com/mozilla-services/symbols.m.o
.. _`Uppercase the debug ID`: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=660932


What It Is
==========

Tecken Download's **primary use-case** is to redirect requests for symbols to
their ultimate source which is S3. For example, with a ``GET``, requesting
:base_url:`/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym`
will return a ``302 Found`` redirect to (at the time of writing)
``https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/org.mozilla.crash-stats.symbols-public/v1/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym``.

This way, all configuration of S3 buckets is central to Tecken even if we
decide to change to a different bucket or add/remove buckets.

The primary benefit of using Tecken Download instead of hitting S3 public
URLs directly is that it's just one URL to remember and Tecken Download
can iterate over a **list of S3 buckets**. This makes it possible to
upload symbols in multiple places but have them all accessible from one URL.

The other use-case of this is if you're simply curious to see if a symbol
file exists. Simply make a ``HEAD`` request instead of a ``GET``.

404s Logged
===========

All ``GET`` requests are logged and counted within Tecken. There is
a basic reporting option to extract ALL symbols that was requested
*yesterday* but couldn't be found. But note that the format is quite
particular since it doesn't report the third part of the URI. And
additionally it reports two extra possible query string parameters
called ``code_file`` and ``code_id``. So if you make a query like:
:base_url:`/foo.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/foo.sym?code_file=FOO.dll&code_id=BAR`
...yesterday, then request the CSV report at:
:base_url:`/missingsymbols.csv` it will contain a CSV line like this::

    foo.pdb,448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412,FOO.dll,BAR

The CSV report is actually ultimately to help the Socorro Processor
which used to manage reporting symbols that can't be found during
processing. See https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1361809


Microsoft on-the-fly Symbol Lookups
===================================

Under certain conditions, if a symbol can not be found in S3, we might
try to look it up from Microsoft's download server
(``https://msdl.microsoft.com/download/symbols/``) if the symbol file
ends in ``.pdb`` and filename ends in ``.sym``.

The HTTP error response code is still ``404`` but the response body will
be ``Symbol Not Found Yet`` (instead of ``Symbol Not Found``).

The lookup is relatively expensive since it depends two a network calls
(to Microsoft's server and potentially our S3 upload)
and various command line subprocesses (``cabextract`` and ``dump_syms``)
so it's important it runs in the background.

Note that this operation is cached for a limited time so if you ask for
the same symbol within a short window of time, it does *not* start another
attempt to download from Microsoft.

All symbols that turns out to not be found are cached by an in-memory cache.
However, every time the filename is matched to potentially be downloaded
from Microsoft the general symbol download cache is invalidated. Meaning
you can do this:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEXHEX/foo.sym
    ...
    404 Symbol Not Found Yet
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEXHEX/foo.sym
    ...
    404 Symbol Not Found Yet
    $ sleep 3  # roughly assume the download + S3 upload takes less than 3 sec
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEXHEX/foo.sym
    ...
    302

.. note:: This was the original implementation https://gist.github.com/luser/92d5bc88478665554898

Ignore Patterns
===============

We know with confidence users repeatedly query certain files that are
never in our symbol stores. We can ignore them to suppress logging
that they couldn't be found.

Right now, this is maintained as a configurable blacklist but is hard
coded inside the ``_ignore_symbol`` code in ``tecken.download.views``.

This approach might change over time as we're able to confidently
identify more and more patterns that we know we can ignore.


File Extension Whitelist
========================

When someone requests to download a symbol, as mentioned above, we have some
ways to immediately decide that it's a 404 Symbol Not Found without even
bothering to ask the cache or S3.

As part of that, there is also a whitelist of file extensions that are the
only ones we should bother with. This list is maintained in
``settings.DOWNLOAD_FILE_EXTENSIONS_WHITELIST`` (managed by the environment
variable ``DJANGO_DOWNLOAD_FILE_EXTENSIONS_WHITELIST``) and this list is
found in the source code (``settings.py``) and also visible on the home page
if you're signed in as a superuser.


Download With Debug
===================

To know how long it took to make a "download", you can simply measure
the time it takes to send the request to Tecken for a specific symbol.
For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ time curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym

Note, that will tell you the total time it took your computer to make the
request to Tecken **plus** Tecken's time to talk to S3.

If you want to know how long it took Tecken *internally* to
talk to S3, you can add a header to your outgoing request. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ curl -v -H 'Debug: true' https://symbols.mozilla.org/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym

Then you'll get a response header called ``Debug-Time``. In the ``curl``
output it will look something like this::

    < Debug-Time: 0.627500057220459

If that value is not present it's because Django was not even able to
route your request to the code that talks to S3. It can also come back
as exactly ``Debug-Time: 0.0`` which means the symbol is in a blacklist of
symbols that are immediately ``404 Not Found`` based on filename pattern
matching.


Download Without Caching
========================

Generally we can cache our work around S3 downloads quite aggressively since we
tightly control the (only) input. Whenever a symbol archive file is uploaded,
for every file within that we upload to S3 we also invalidate it from our
cache. That means we can cache information about whether certain symbols
exist in S3 or not quite long.

However, if you are debugging something or if you manually remove a symbol
from S3 that control is "lost". But there is a way to force the cache to
be ignored. However, it only ignores looking in the cache. It will always
update the cache.

To do this append ``?_refresh`` to the URL. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym
    ...302 Found...

    # Now suppose you delete the file manually from S3 in the AWS Console.
    # And without any delay do the curl again:
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym
    ...302 Found...
    # Same old "broken", which is wrong.

    # Avoid it by adding ?_refresh
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym?_refresh
    ...404 Symbol Not Found...

    # Now our cache will be updated.
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym
    ...404 Symbol Not Found...

Commit message:

fixes bug 1413293 - microsoft filter missingsymbols.csv (#537)

docs/download.rst, after:

========
Download
========


History
=======

The original solution that Tecken replaces is `symbols.m.o`_ which was a
Heroku app that ran an Apache server that used proxy rewrites to
draw symbols from ``https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/org.mozilla.crash-stats.symbols-public/v1/``.

Its rewrite rules contained two legacy solutions:

1. `Uppercase the debug ID`_ in the filename.

2. Support having specific product names (e.g. ``firefox``) prefixing the
   name of the symbol file.


The old symbol download server was using ``symbols.mozilla.org`` and
was accessible only with ``http://``.

.. _`symbols.m.o`: https://github.com/mozilla-services/symbols.m.o
.. _`Uppercase the debug ID`: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=660932


What It Is
==========

Tecken Download's **primary use-case** is to redirect requests for symbols to
their ultimate source which is S3. For example, with a ``GET``, requesting
:base_url:`/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym`
will return a ``302 Found`` redirect to (at the time of writing)
``https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/org.mozilla.crash-stats.symbols-public/v1/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym``.

This way, all configuration of S3 buckets is central to Tecken even if we
decide to change to a different bucket or add/remove buckets.

The primary benefit of using Tecken Download instead of hitting S3 public
URLs directly is that it's just one URL to remember and Tecken Download
can iterate over a **list of S3 buckets**. This makes it possible to
upload symbols in multiple places but have them all accessible from one URL.

The other use-case of this is if you're simply curious to see if a symbol
file exists. Simply make a ``HEAD`` request instead of a ``GET``.

404s Logged
===========

All ``GET`` requests are logged and counted within Tecken. There is
a basic reporting option to extract ALL symbols that was requested
*yesterday* but couldn't be found. But note that the format is quite
particular since it doesn't report the third part of the URI. And
additionally it reports two extra possible query string parameters
called ``code_file`` and ``code_id``. So if you make a query like:
:base_url:`/foo.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/foo.sym?code_file=FOO.dll&code_id=BAR`
...yesterday, then request the CSV report at:
:base_url:`/missingsymbols.csv` it will contain a CSV line like this::

    foo.pdb,448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412,FOO.dll,BAR

The CSV report is actually ultimately to help the Socorro Processor
which used to manage reporting symbols that can't be found during
processing. See https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1361809

If you're only interested in missing symbols whose symbol ended with
``.pdb`` and filename ended with ``.sym`` (case insensitively) you can
append ``?microsoft=only``. E.g.:
:base_url:`/missingsymbols.csv?microsoft=only`.
The purpose of this is to get missing symbols that *could* be fetched
from Microsoft.


Microsoft on-the-fly Symbol Lookups
===================================

Under certain conditions, if a symbol can not be found in S3, we might
try to look it up from Microsoft's download server
(``https://msdl.microsoft.com/download/symbols/``) if the symbol file
ends in ``.pdb`` and filename ends in ``.sym``.

The HTTP error response code is still ``404`` but the response body will
be ``Symbol Not Found Yet`` (instead of ``Symbol Not Found``).

The lookup is relatively expensive since it depends two a network calls
(to Microsoft's server and potentially our S3 upload)
and various command line subprocesses (``cabextract`` and ``dump_syms``)
so it's important it runs in the background.

Note that this operation is cached for a limited time so if you ask for
the same symbol within a short window of time, it does *not* start another
attempt to download from Microsoft.

All symbols that turns out to not be found are cached by an in-memory cache.
However, every time the filename is matched to potentially be downloaded
from Microsoft the general symbol download cache is invalidated. Meaning
you can do this:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEXHEX/foo.sym
    ...
    404 Symbol Not Found Yet
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEXHEX/foo.sym
    ...
    404 Symbol Not Found Yet
    $ sleep 3  # roughly assume the download + S3 upload takes less than 3 sec
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEXHEX/foo.sym
    ...
    302

.. note:: This was the original implementation https://gist.github.com/luser/92d5bc88478665554898

Ignore Patterns
===============

We know with confidence users repeatedly query certain files that are
never in our symbol stores. We can ignore them to suppress logging
that they couldn't be found.

Right now, this is maintained as a configurable blacklist but is hard
coded inside the ``_ignore_symbol`` code in ``tecken.download.views``.

This approach might change over time as we're able to confidently
identify more and more patterns that we know we can ignore.


File Extension Whitelist
========================

When someone requests to download a symbol, as mentioned above, we have some
ways to immediately decide that it's a 404 Symbol Not Found without even
bothering to ask the cache or S3.

As part of that, there is also a whitelist of file extensions that are the
only ones we should bother with. This list is maintained in
``settings.DOWNLOAD_FILE_EXTENSIONS_WHITELIST`` (managed by the environment
variable ``DJANGO_DOWNLOAD_FILE_EXTENSIONS_WHITELIST``) and this list is
found in the source code (``settings.py``) and also visible on the home page
if you're signed in as a superuser.


Download With Debug
===================

To know how long it took to make a "download", you can simply measure
the time it takes to send the request to Tecken for a specific symbol.
For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ time curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym

Note, that will tell you the total time it took your computer to make the
request to Tecken **plus** Tecken's time to talk to S3.

If you want to know how long it took Tecken *internally* to
talk to S3, you can add a header to your outgoing request. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ curl -v -H 'Debug: true' https://symbols.mozilla.org/firefox.pdb/448794C699914DB8A8F9B9F88B98D7412/firefox.sym

Then you'll get a response header called ``Debug-Time``. In the ``curl``
output it will look something like this::

    < Debug-Time: 0.627500057220459

If that value is not present it's because Django was not even able to
route your request to the code that talks to S3. It can also come back
as exactly ``Debug-Time: 0.0`` which means the symbol is in a blacklist of
symbols that are immediately ``404 Not Found`` based on filename pattern
matching.


Download Without Caching
========================

Generally we can cache our work around S3 downloads quite aggressively since we
tightly control the (only) input. Whenever a symbol archive file is uploaded,
for every file within that we upload to S3 we also invalidate it from our
cache. That means we can cache information about whether certain symbols
exist in S3 or not quite long.

However, if you are debugging something or if you manually remove a symbol
from S3 that control is "lost". But there is a way to force the cache to
be ignored. However, it only ignores looking in the cache. It will always
update the cache.

To do this append ``?_refresh`` to the URL. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym
    ...302 Found...

    # Now suppose you delete the file manually from S3 in the AWS Console.
    # And without any delay do the curl again:
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym
    ...302 Found...
    # Same old "broken", which is wrong.

    # Avoid it by adding ?_refresh
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym?_refresh
    ...404 Symbol Not Found...

    # Now our cache will be updated.
    $ curl https://symbols.mozilla.org/foo.pdb/HEX/foo.sym
    ...404 Symbol Not Found...
